Add docs for new props on fe config, inputComponent, getDefaultValue, nonOptionalErrorMsg (#744)
supertokens/docs: v2/emailpassword/common-customizations/signin-form/additional-field-props.mdx

---
id: additional-field-props

> title: Additional Field Props

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Customising each form field
```

hide_title: true
---

<!-- COPY DOCS -->
<!-- ./emailpassword/common-customizations/signin-form/additional-field-props.mdx -->

import FrontendSDKTabs from "/src/components/tabs/FrontendSDKTabs"
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Additional Field Props

* [Modify Labels and Placeholder Text](#modify-labels-and-placeholder-text)
* [Setting Default Values](#setting-default-values)
* [Changing Optional Error Message](#changing-optional-error-message)

> 

Reviewer: add one more item to change field order: https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-auth-react/issues/296#issuecomment-1236119677

## Modify Labels and Placeholder Text

If you would like to modify the fields in the login widget, by changing UI labels or placeholder text, you can do so by modifying the `formFields` property when initializing SuperTokens on the frontend.

<FrontendSDKTabs>
<TabItem value="reactjs">

```tsx
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-auth-react";
import ^{recipeNameCapitalLetters} from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/^{codeImportRecipeName}";
import Session from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/session";

SuperTokens.init({
    appInfo: {
        apiDomain: "...",
        appName: "...",
        websiteDomain: "..."
    },
    recipeList: [
         ^{recipeNameCapitalLetters}.init({
            signInAndUpFeature: {
                signInForm: {
                    // highlight-start
                    formFields: [{
                        id: "email",
                        label: "customFieldName",
                        placeholder: "Custom value"
                    }]
                }
                // highlight-end
            }
        }),
        Session.init()
    ]
});
```
</TabItem>
</FrontendSDKTabs>

> <img alt="Prebuilt form UI with custom labels and placeholder" src="/img/emailpassword/modified-formfields.png" />

Reviewer: screenshots are wrong. for tpep recipe

<FrontendSDKTabs>
<TabItem value="reactjs">

```tsx
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-auth-react"; 
import ^{recipeNameCapitalLetters} from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/^{codeImportRecipeName}";
import Session from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/session";

SuperTokens.init({
    appInfo: {
        apiDomain: "...",
        appName: "...",
        websiteDomain: "..."
    },
    recipeList: [
        ^{recipeNameCapitalLetters}.init({
            signInAndUpFeature: {
                signInForm: {
                    formFields: [{
                        id: "email",
                        label: "Your Email",
                    // highlight-start
                        getDefaultValue: () => "john.doe@gmail.com"
                    // highlight-end
                    }]
                }
            }
        }),
        Session.init()
    ]
});
```
</TabItem>
</FrontendSDKTabs>

<img alt="Prebuilt signin form UI with default values for fields" src="/img/emailpassword/signin-with-default-values.png" />

:::important

The return value of  `getDefaultValue` function must be a string

:::

## Changing Optional Error Message

> When you try to submit login form without a required/non-optional field, the app will throw an error `Field is not optional`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you try to submit login form without filling in required / non-optional fields, the SDK will, by default, show an error stating that the `Field is not optional`.
```

You can customize this error message with `nonOptionalErrorMsg` property in the formField config.

Let's see how to achieve it.

<FrontendSDKTabs>
<TabItem value="reactjs">

```tsx
import SuperTokens from "supertokens-auth-react";
import ^{recipeNameCapitalLetters} from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/^{codeImportRecipeName}";
import Session from "supertokens-auth-react/recipe/session";

SuperTokens.init({
    appInfo: {
        apiDomain: "...",
        appName: "...",
        websiteDomain: "..."
    },
    recipeList: [
        ^{recipeNameCapitalLetters}.init({
            signInAndUpFeature: {
                signInForm: {
                    formFields: [{
                        id: "email",
                        label: "Your Email",
                        placeholder: "Email",
                    // highlight-start
                        nonOptionalErrorMsg: "Please add your email"
                    // highlight-end
                    }]
                }
            }
        }),
        Session.init()
    ]
});
```
</TabItem>
</FrontendSDKTabs>

<img alt="Prebuilt form UI with custom error message" src="/img/emailpassword/signin-with-custom-error-msg.png" />

> Observe how the password field showed the standard error message because a custom message wasn't assigned using `nonOptionalErrorMsg` for this field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Observe how the password field displays the standard error message because a custom message wasn't assigned using `nonOptionalErrorMsg` for that field.
```
